{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13120\viewh10840\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.00162"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\fs24 \cf0 http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.00162}}
\f0\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 Context. The 111-101 lines of ortho and para\'96NH2D (o/p-NH2D), respectively at 86 and 110 GHz, are commonly observed to provide constraints on the deuterium fractionation in the interstellar medium. In cold regions, the hyperfine structure due to the nitrogen (14N) nucleus is resolved. To date, this splitting is the only one which is taken into account in the NH2D column density estimates. Aims. We investigate how the inclusion of the hyperfine splitting caused by the deuterium (D) nucleus affects the analysis of the rotational lines of NH2D. \
\
Methods. We present 30m IRAM observations of the above mentioned lines, as well as APEX o/p-NH2D observations of the 101-000 lines at 333 GHz. The hyperfine patterns of the observed lines were calculated taking into account the splitting induced by the D nucleus. The analysis then relies on line lists that either neglect or take into account the splitting induced by the D nucleus. \
\
Results. The hyperfine spectra are first analyzed with a line list that only includes the hyperfine splitting due to the 14N nucleus. We find inconsistencies between the line widths of the 101-000 and 111-101 lines, the latter being larger by a factor of 
\f2 \uc0\u8764 
\f1 1.6\'b10.3. Such a large difference is unexpected given the two sets of lines are likely to originate from the same region. We next employ a newly computed line list for the o/p-NH2D transitions, where the hyperfine structure induced by both nitrogen and deuterium nuclei is included. With this new line list, the analysis of the previous spectra leads to linewidths which are compatible. \
\
Conclusions. Neglecting the hyperfine structure owing to D leads to overestimate the linewidths of the o/p-NH2D lines at 3 mm. The error for a cold molecular core is about 50%. This error propagates directly to the column density estimate. It is therefore recommended to take into account the hyperfine splittings caused by both the 14N and D nuclei in any analysis relying on these lines.
\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.00362"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.00362}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 We have analyzed the angular momentum of the molecular cloud cores in the Orion A giant molecular cloud observed in the N2H + J = 1 
\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  0 line with the Nobeyama 45 m radio telescope. We have measured the velocity gradient using position velocity diagrams passing through core centers, and made sinusoidal fitting against the position angle. 27 out of 34 N2H + cores allowed us to measure the velocity gradient without serious confusion. The derived velocity gradient ranges from 0.5 to 7.8 km s\uc0\u8722 1 pc\u8722 1 . We marginally found that the specific angular momentum J/M (against the core radius R) of the Orion N2H + cores tends to be systematically larger than that of molecular cloud cores in cold dark clouds obtained by Goodman et al., in the J/M \u8722  R relation. The ratio \u946  of rotational to gravitational energy is derived to be \u946  = 10\u8722 2.3\'b10.7 , and is similar to that obtained for cold dark cloud cores in a consistent definition. The large-scale rotation of the R -shaped filament of the Orion A giant molecular cloud does not likely govern the core rotation at smaller scales
\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.00821"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.00821}} YES\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 The chemistry along the mass loss of Hot Jupiters is generally considered to be simple, consisting mainly of atoms, prevented from forming more complex species by the intense radiation field from their host stars. In order to probe the region where the temperature is low (T < 2000 K), we developed a 1D chemical and photochemical reaction model of the atmospheric mass loss of HD 209458 b, involving 56 species, including carbon chain and oxygen bearing ones, interacting through 566 reactions. The simulation results indicate that simple molecules like OH+ , H2O+ and H3O+ are formed inside the region, considering that residual H2 survives in the exosphere, a possibility indicated by recent observational work. The molecules are formed and destroyed within a radial distance of less than 107 km, but the estimated integrated column density of OH+ , a potential tracer of H2, is high enough to allow detection, which, once achieved, would indicate a revision of chemical models of the upper atmosphere of Hot Jupiters. For low density Hot Jupiters receiving less intense XUV radiation from their host stars than HD 209458 b, molecular species could conceivably be formed with a higher total column density.
\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.01449"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.01449}} YES\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 Context. The gas-solid budget of carbon in protoplanetary disks is related to the composition of the cores and atmospheres of the planets forming in them. The key gas-phase carbon carriers CO, C0 and C+ can now be observed regularly in disks. Aims. The gas-phase carbon abundance in disks has thus far not been well characterized observationally. We aim to obtain new constraints on the [C]/[H] ratio in a large sample of disks, and to compile an overview of the strength of [Ci] and warm CO emission. Methods. We carried out a survey of the CO 6\'965 and [Ci] 1\'960 and 2\'961 lines towards 37 disks with the APEX telescope, and supplemented it with [Cii] data from the literature. The data are interpreted using a grid of models produced with the DALI disk code. We also investigate how well the gas-phase carbon abundance can be determined in light of parameter uncertainties. Results. The CO 6\'965 line is detected in 13 out of 33 sources, the [C i] 1\'960 in 6 out of 12, and the [Ci] 2\'961 in 1 out of 33. With separate deep integrations, the first unambiguous detections of the [Ci] 1\'960 line in disks are obtained, in TW Hya and HD 100546. Conclusions. Gas-phase carbon abundance reductions of a factor 5\'9610 or more can be identified robustly based on CO and [Ci] detections, assuming reasonable constraints on other parameters. The atomic carbon detection towards TW Hya confirms a factor 100 reduction of [C]/[H]gas in that disk, while the data are consistent with an ISM-like carbon abundance for HD 100546. In addition, BP Tau, T Cha, HD 139614, HD 141569, and HD 100453 are either carbon-depleted or gas-poor disks. The low [Ci] 2\'961 detection rates in the survey mostly reflect insufficient sensitivity to detect T Tauri disks. The Herbig Ae/Be disks with CO and [C ii] upper limits below the models are debris disk like systems. A roughly order of magnitude increase in sensitivity compared to our survey is required to obtain useful constraints on the gas-phase [C]/[H] ratio in most of the targeted systems
\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.01682"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.01682}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 We present ALMA detections of the [NII] 205 \'b5m and CO(12-11) emission lines, and the tentative detection of [CI] 3P1 - 3P0 for the strongly lensed (\'b5=5.7\'b10.5) dusty, star-forming galaxy SPT-S J213242-5802.9 (hereafter SPT2132-58) at z=4.77. The [NII] and CO(12-11) lines are detected at 11.5 and 8.5\uc0\u963  level, respectively, by our band-6 observations. The [CI] line is detected at 3.2\u963  after a re-analysis of existing band-3 data. The [CI] luminosity implies a gas mass of 3.8\'b11.2\'d71010 M , and consequently a very short depletion timescale of 34\'b113 Myr and a CO-luminosity-to-gas-mass conversion factor \u945 CO of 1.0\'b10.3 M (K km s\u8722 1 pc2 ) \u8722 1 . SPT2132-58 is an extreme starburst with an intrinsic star formation rate of 1100\'b1200 M /yr. We find a [CII]/[NII] ratio of 26\'b16, which is the highest reported at z>4. This suggests that SPT2132-58 hosts an evolved interstellar medium (0.5 Z < Z < 1.5 Z ), which may be dominated by photodissociation regions. The CO(2-1) and CO(5-4) transitions have lower CO-to-far-infrared ratios than local and high-redshift samples, while CO(12-11) is similar to these samples, suggesting the presence of an additional very excited component or an AGN
\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.01696"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.01696}} YES\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 Context. The recent unexpected detection of terrestrial complex organic molecules in the cold (
\f2 \uc0\u8764 
\f1  10 K) gas has cast doubts on the commonly accepted formation mechanisms of these species. Standard gas-phase mechanisms are inefficient and tend to underproduce these molecules, and many of the key reactions involved are unconstrained. Grain-surface mechanisms, which were presented as a viable alternative, suffer from the fact that they rely on grain surface diffusion of heavy radicals, which is not possible thermally at very low temperatures. Aims. One of the simplest terrestrial complex organic molecules, methanol is believed to form on cold grain surfaces following from successive H atom additions on CO. Unlike heavier species, H atoms are very mobile on grain surfaces even at 10 K. Intermediate species involved in grain surface methanol formation by CO hydrogenation are the radicals HCO and CH3O, as well as the stable species formaldehyde H2CO. These radicals are thought to be precursors of complex organic molecules on grain surfaces. Methods. We present new observations of the HCO and CH3O radicals in a sample of prestellar cores and carry out an analysis of the abundances of the species HCO, H2CO, CH3O, and CH3OH, which represent the various stages of grain-surface hydrogenation of CO to CH3OH. Results. The abundance ratios between the various intermediate species in the hydrogenation reaction of CO on grains are similar in all sources of our sample, HCO : H2CO : CH3O : CH3OH 
\f2 \uc0\u8764 
\f1  10 : 100 : 1 : 100. We argue that these ratios may not be representative of the primordial abundances on the grains but, rather, suggest that the radicals HCO and CH3O are gas-phase products of the precursors H2CO and CH3OH, respectively. Various gas-phase pathways are considered, including neutral-neutral and ion-molecule reactions, and simple estimates of HCO and CH3O abundances are compared to the observations. Critical reaction rate constants, branching ratios, and intermediate species are finally identified.
\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.01718"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.01718}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 We apply the concept of superradiance introduced by Dicke in 1954 to the OH molecule 1612 MHz spectral line often used for the detection of masers in circumstellar envelopes of evolved stars. As the detection of 1612 MHz OH masers in the outer shells of envelopes of these stars implies the existence of a population inversion and a high level of velocity coherence, and that these are two necessary requirements for superradiance, we investigate whether superradiance can also happen in these regions. Superradiance is characterized by high intensity, spatially compact, burst-like features taking place over time-scales on the order of seconds to years, depending on the size and physical conditions present in the regions harboring such sources of radiation. Our analysis suggests that superradiance provides a valid explanation for previous observations of intensity flares detected in that spectral line for the U Orionis Mira star and the IRAS18276-1431 pre-planetary nebula.
\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.02384"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.02384}} MAYBE\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 We present synthetic ALMA observations of Keplerian, protostellar discs in the Class 0 stage studying the emission of molecular tracers like 13CO, C18O, HCO+, H13CO+, N2H+, and H2CO. We model the emission of discs around low- and intermediatemass protostars. We show that under optimal observing conditions ALMA is able to detect the discs already in the earliest stage of protostellar evolution, although the emission is often concentrated to the innermost 50 AU. Therefore, a resolution of a few 0.1\'94 might be too low to detect Keplerian discs around Class 0 objects. We also demonstrate that under optimal conditions Keplerian rotation signatures are recognisable and protostellar masses can be determined with high fidelity for edgeon discs. Furthermore, we show that it is possible to reveal Keplerian rotation even for strongly inclined discs and that ALMA should be able to detect possible signs of fragmentation in face-on discs. In order to give some guidance for future ALMA observations, we investigate the influence of varying observing conditions and source distances. We show that it is possible to probe Keplerian rotation in inclined discs with an observing time of 2 h and a resolution of 0.1\'94, even in the case of moderate weather conditions. Furthermore, we demonstrate that under optimal conditions, Keplerian discs around intermediate-mass protostars should be detectable up to kpc-distances.
\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.03165"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.03165}} MAYBE\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f3\fs28 \cf0 \cb2 We present observations of 12CO J=1-0, 13CO J=1-0, HI, and all four ground-state transitions of the hydroxyl (OH) radical toward a sharp boundary region of the Taurus molecular cloud. Based on a PDR model that reproduces CO and [CI] emission from the same region, we modeled the three OH transitions, 1612, 1665, 1667 MHz successfully through escape probability non-LTE radiative transfer model calculations. We could not reproduce the 1720 MHz observations, due to un-modeled pumping mechanisms, of which the most likely candidate is a C-shock. The abundance of OH and CO-dark molecular gas (DMG) are well constrained. The OH abundance [OH]/[H2] decreases from 8*10-7 to 1*10-7 as Av increases from 0.4 to 2.7 mag, following an empirical law [OH]/[H2]= 1.5 * 10^\{-7\} + 9.0 * 10^\{-7\} * exp(-Av/0.81), which is higher than PDR model predictions for low extinction regions by a factor of 80. The overabundance of OH at extinctions at or below 1 mag is likely the result of a C-shock. The dark gas fraction (DGF, defined as fraction of molecular gas without detectable CO emission) decreases from 80% to 20%, following a gaussian profile DGF= 0.90 * exp(-( Av -0.79 )/0.71)^2) This trend of the DGF is consistent with our understanding that the DGF drops at low visual extinction due to photodissociation of H2 and drops at high visual extinction due to CO formation. The DGF peaks in the extinction range where H2 has already formed and achieved self-shielding but 12CO has not. Two narrow velocity components with a peak-to-peak spacing of ~ 1 km s-1 were clearly identified. Their relative intensity and variation in space and frequency suggest colliding streams or gas flows at the boundary region.
\f0\fs24 \cb1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.05836"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.05836}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 Observations of protoplanetary disks suggest that the gas and dust follow significantly different radial distributions. This finding can be theoretically explained by a combination of radial drift and gas drag of intermediate-sized dust grains. Using a simple parametric model to approximate the different distributions of the gas and dust components, we calculate and examine the impact of radial drift on the global dust temperature structure. We find that the removal of large grains beyond the \'93truncation radius\'94 allows this region to become significantly warmer from reprocessed stellar radiation shining down from the disk upper layers, increasing the outer disk temperature by 
\f2 \uc0\u8764 
\f1  10 \uc0\u8722  30%. This change is sufficient to raise the local temperature to a value exceeding the CO desorption temperature. These findings imply that the disk density structures induced by radial drift are able to create multiple CO snow-lines. The inner disk CO is in the gas phase, freezing out near the classical snow-line at R 
\f2 \uc0\u8764 
\f1  20 \uc0\u8722  40 AU. Moving outward, the CO sublimates once again beyond the truncation radius (80 AU in our models) and subsequently re-freezes out at sufficiently large stellar distances, beyond R & 130\u8722 200 AU. We find that thermal desorption of CO in the outer disk becomes competitive with external UV photodesorption and that this additional transition from solid state CO to the gas-phase has significant implications for the C/O ratio in the outer disk.
\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.05783?context=astro-ph.SR"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.05783?context=astro-ph.SR}} YES-MAYBE\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 We observed the J = 9 \uc0\u8722  8 and 16 \u8722  15 rotational transitions of the normal species and five 13C isotopologues of HC5N to study its formation mechanisms toward the cyanopolyyne peak in Taurus Molecular Cloud-1, with the 45-m radio telescope of Nobeyama Radio Observatory. We detected the five 13C isotopologues with high signal-to-noise ratios between 12 and 20, as well as the normal species. The abundance ratios of the five 13C isotopologues of HC5N are found to be 1.00 : 0.97 : 1.03 : 1.05 : 1.16 (\'b10.19) (1\u963 ) for [H13CCCCCN] : [HC13CCCCN] : [HCC13CCCN] : [HCCC13CCN] : [HCCCC13CN]. We do not find any significant differences among the five 13C isotopologues. The averaged [HC5N]/[13C isotopologues] abundance ratio is determined to be 94 \'b1 6 (1\u963 ), which is slightly higher than the local interstellar elemental 12C/13C ratio of 60 \u8722  70. Possible formation pathways are discussed on the basis of these results.
\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.06714"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.06714}} YES\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 Computational models of interstellar gas-grain chemistry have historically adopted a single dust-grain size of 0.1 micron, assumed to be representative of the size distribution present in the interstellar medium. Here, we investigate the effects of a broad grain-size distribution on the chemistry on dust-grain surfaces and the subsequent build-up of molecular ices on the grains, using a three-phase gas-grain chemical model of a quiescent dark cloud. We include an explicit treatment of the grain temperatures, governed both by the visual extinction of the cloud and the size of each individual grain-size population. We find that the temperature difference plays a significant role in determining the total bulk ice composition across the grain-size distribution, while the effects of geometrical differences between size populations appear marginal. We also consider collapse from a diffuse to a dark cloud, allowing dust temperatures to fall. Under the initial diffuse conditions, small grains are too warm to promote grain-mantle build-up, with most ices forming on the mid-sized grains. As collapse proceeds, the more abundant, smallest grains cool and become the dominant ice carriers; the large population of small grains means that this ice is distributed across many grains, with perhaps no more than 40 monolayers of ice each (versus several hundred assuming a single grain size). This effect may be important for the subsequent processing and desorption of the ice during the hot-core phase of star-formation, exposing a significant proportion of the ice to the gas phase, increasing the importance of icesurface chemistry and surface-gas interactions.}